---
layout: post
title: Web Security 
tags: [Defense Against the Dark Arts]
---

## The Web
Today, the web can be accessed anywhere; your laptop, phone, mother’s new fridge, and your father’s new speakers. 
And, that is why web security is an important area in security.

## Web as a Threat Delivery Mechanism 
The evolution of technology is growing so rapidly that attacks of today will probably not work in a year or so. Do you remember the first web browser browser? Mosiac. Well, you’re probably thinking that it’s so ancient, right? But, in actuality, the most recent release was in 1997 which isn’t very old. But since, technology is growing so fast, there has been major improvements since the first web browser 20 years ago. And, it’s the same with web security. 

Did you know 95% if malware is delivered through the web? Web-based malware delivery went from generic phishing, popup-based redirection, script-bombing to Man-in-the-Browser (MitB), HTML-5 based attacks, and advanced spear phishing. 

There are many locations a threat can interact with in your browser:
- De-obfuscated Content 
- JavaScript
- HTML (DOM Tree)
- HTML (Raw HTML)
- HTTP

## Users-Level Attacks
Most attacks are not technology related. It is solely from the user making unwise decisions. This is called “Social Engineering”. In user level attacks, the user themselves are the weak link. We can have the most updated browser with security patches. However, the user can still click on a malicious link. Users who are impatient, lazy, self-proclaimed omniscience, and clickaholics are are all vulnerable to being attacked. 

Some attacks are include:
- Phishing
- Fake AV
- Forum Link Insertion
- SEO Poisoning
- Social Media Link Insertion
- Malvertising

**Phishing:** A fake site that looks very similar to the legitimate version. In the past, phishing usually dealt with banking and financial, which is not the case anymore. Snowshoe spamming is keeping phishing alive by spreading spam output across many IPs and domains to bypass filters. A phishing site is typically short-lived.

**SEO Poisoning:** Using the most recent search trends to lure the user. Trends include celebrities, pop culture, world events, educational/professional,. and fake AV/AM. Trends can be identified using tools such as Google Trends.

**Fake Updates and Fake AV:** This type of attack targets user’s good intention. A user may want to download and install an antivirus. However, what they don’t know is that it’s PHONY. Attackers will sometimes mimic well known antivirus brands.

**WHAT YOU SEE IS WHAT YOU GET... or not:** Malicious links are spelled very similar to legitimate sites that some users won’t even notice.
- rmicrosoft.com
- arnazon.com/prime

**Social Media Attacks:** Ever searched a person you thought was attractive on Facebook, Instagram, etc.? That’s cool. But be careful, some attackers like to seed information. Don't be catfished like those people on the show “Catfish”.

**Malvertising:** Attackers will use advertising networks to post malicious ads. An attacker could basically go to the NY Times to post their ads!

**Waterhole:** A common attack on a community of developers by injecting exploits into selected sites.

## What’s the Solution?
Some common defenses against user attacks are:
- URL/Domain Reputation Systems
- Site Certification Services
- Client and Gateway AV/AM
- Safe URL shorteners
- Content provider education
- End user education (The human firewall)

{: .box-note}
**Note:** It’s important to have multiple layers of defense. Easy to breach one layer, but complex to breach multiple.

## Browser-Level Attacks
Browser level attacks are pretty self-explanatory, where they are attacks that target the browser. A typical breach in the browser starts with a malicious software in your system targeting your browser. Why? Your browser contains lots of confidential information such as credit card information, bank information, personal information, passwords, etc.  

Modern browsers are imbedded with layers of security. And, these layers are like sandboxes trying to isolate the browser from the rest of the browser. 

**Content/Script Obfuscation:** There are so many ways to encode a piece of JavaScript code. Sometimes, developers use packers to compress code to expand performance, bandwidth, and prevent code from being stolen. 

**Man-in-the-Middle Attack:** If you’re not going to an encrypted website or not using a VPN, you’re vulnerable from getting your information stolen. MITM can be done in home networks as well.

**Man-in-the-Browser Attack:** This type of attack sits inside the browser and attempts to intercept and modify traffic between the host and the server.

**DNS Spoofing:** Used for phishing. 

**ClickJacking/UI Redressing:** Overlays different themes in the browser to trick the user into clicking a predetermined link. You may see this alot in a lot of illegal streaming sites.

**SQL Injection:** Inject queries in database driven websites allowing the attacker to reveal private data. Most web developers are not security experts which makes it a lot easier for hackers. Some websites do not sanitize the user inputs to prevent them running GET/POST commands into the database.

**Cross Site Scripting:**  The goal of this attack is to inject client-side code into the user’s browser to bypass SOP rules. The script do many things when it is executed. There are two types of XSS: persistent and non-persistent.
