---
layout: post
title: Malware Defenses
tags: [Defense Against the Dark Arts]
---

## Timeline of a malicious software
**First Contact**: Malware tries makes it's first contact through means of email, instant messaging, malvertising, poisoned search results, watering hole, physical access, etc. 

**Local Execution**: Once the attackers reach the target, the malware will start to execute code. Exploitation is the most popular type of code execution today.

**Establish Presence**: Malwares will start to establish presence by appearing legitimate to blend in and hide within the system. Bootkit and rootkits are sometimes used to tell your system to execute the code. Persistance is also seen malware where rebooting the system will not remove the malware. 

**Malicious Activity**: The ultimate goal for most malware is to harvest information such as enumarating documents, passwords, email addresses, keystokes, etc.

## Layers of Malware Defense
First layer of defense would include your network firewall and network intrusion prevention. 
Second layer of defense would include message reputation, network reputation, and web reputation.
Third layer of defense is the host firewall.
Between the third layer and fourth layer, there is a host intrusion prevention system.
Last layer of defense is access control and anti-malware software.

Information is gathered from all layers and transferred to a central intelligience unit to get a better hollistic view of the attack. This is to prevent problems when using different competitor software for different layers. Another reason to do this is to give the client a forensic view of what happened during the attack, what information was stolen? what files has been modified? etc.

## Anti-Malware Defense system
The Management server is communicating with the **Point Product** layer. In this case, the point product we're discussing are virus scan enterprise, host intrusion preventions/detection, etc. The point product then communicates with **Scanner Cores** where they handle different types of communication. They receive information and determine what and when to scan. 

> Sounds like the scanner cores goes through millions and millions of information, doesn't that mean it's slow? 

Not necessarily, it is optimized for perforamance to handle that amout of information. Finally, the scanner cores communicates with the engines interface and interface consumes the content. 

**Components:**
- Traditional file scanning
- Registry and cookies scanning
- Cloud scanning (Content will move to the cloud to update in realtime)
- Memory scanning
- Scripts
- Heuristics
- Decomposition (Scan compressed files)
- Configuration: Exclusions, Sensitivity, Reporting, etc. (What folders are we scanning? Sensitivity?)

{: .box-note}
**Note:** YARA is a tool used in malware research that involves pattern matching

## Malware Analysis in Action
Here is a YARA signature for one of malicious samples:
```
rule MalwareSamples 
{
    strings:
      $s1 = "Install"
      $s2 = "ERROR"
      $s3 = "cmd.exe"
      $s4 = "keylogger"
      
    conditions:
      any of them
}
```
