---
layout: post
title: Advanced Forensics
tags: [Defense Against the Dark Arts]
---

## What is a forensic investigator?
A forensic investigator is responsible for retrieving information and data from computers and other devices to analyze facts about a case. Typically, forensic investigators work for law enforcement and private firms.

{: .box-warning}
**Important Note:** The only thing that a forensic investigator is resonsible for is providing information on what happened on the system. He/She is NOT responsible for judging whether a person is guilty or not. 

## Type of cases investigated using computer forensics
There are different types of cases. But, the major types of cases include:
- Fraud
- Intellectual property threat
- Intrusions by a hacker
- Data breaches
- Inappropriate use of the internet (e.g Dark Web)
- Child Exploitation

### How is it all done? 
There are three general steps in foresnsic investigation:
1. Evidence aquisition
2. Investigation and analysis
3. Reporting results

Forensic computing can be classified into three different categories:
- Live forensics: Investigator must examine a machine that currently running due to volatile information.
- Post-mortem based forensics (memory/disk): This includes XBOX, Playstation, etc. since communication between users is capable. 
- Network based forensics 

{: .box-note}
**Note:** It is very important to minimize data loss, record everything you've encountered, analyze all data collected that will be used as evidence, and report all your findings. Reports must be clearly written with proper language used. Sometimes reports must be verified by an attorney before submitting.

## Evidence
There are different layers where evidence can be found in computer forensics.
- Network
- Operating System (Windows, MacOS, Linux, etc.). Common Operating Systems vary by location.
- Databases and application. Database forensics is booming as there are currently a limited number of people in this area.
- Peripherals
- Removable media
- Human Testimony

Hard disks can be hard to investigate as the average storage capacity of today is very large (1TB). Sometimes, criminals use harder drives with a storage capactiy of 8TB - 10TB of memory. 

**Privacy** is still a big case that investigators need to take into consideration. If there is information that investigators need to access that could potentially be an invasion of privacy, a judge must give them permission or a warrant to continue. 

There is a princple called the **"Locard's Exchange Principle"** which states
> When any two objects come into contact, there is always transference of material from each object onto the other.

In other words, when you start investigating a system, it will never be the same as the system before you touched it.
An example of this is during an interaction with a live system. As a result, evidence could be altered from the investigator's actions which could lead the judge to drop the case in court. For this reason, it is really important for the investigator to log every action down. 

## Live Response on a Windows Machine
Like I described earlier, a live response is an investigation on a machine that is currently running. Typically, this is done at the site of the criminal case.

The order of information collected must be followed during a live response:
1. Volatile data (Data that is present up until there is no power)
2. Non-volatile data (Time/Date stamps, event logs, web/application logs, registry)
3. Other relevant files, logical files (Unknown executables, attack tools, etc.)
