---
layout: post
title: Mobile Security 
tags: [Defense Against the Dark Arts]
---

## Mobile Networks Evolution
The evolution of mobile technology begun in 1973 where the first handheld phone was made by Motorolla. It costed about $3,000! In the 1980s, phones were analog (1G), which then evolved to 2G to 4G (VoIP).

## Mobile OS Overview: Platforms and Security
Since mobile phones are very common today, let’s focus on modern mobile operating systems. There are three major operating systems for mobile phones, Google’s Android, Apple’s iOS, and Microsoft’s Windows. About 74% of the market uses Android and 24% uses iOS. 

Android was developed by a company called Android Inc in 2007, but was acquired by Google in 2007. The operating system is currently supported by Open Handset Alliance. Android is open source and is free to install. 

Although, iOS isn’t as popular as android, Apple started the smartphone revolution in 2007 when it released the iPhone. In contrast to Android, the operating system is closed source and only integrated in Apple devices. 

Let’s look at a development environment and security comparison between Android and iOS:
- Kernel
  - Android: Linux
  - iOS: XNU (Max OSX)
- Official Programming Language
  - Android: Java
  - iOS: Objective-C, C++, C
- Executable File Format
  - Android: ELF
  - iOS: Mach-O
- App File Format
  - Android: .apk
  - iOS: .ipa
- App Signing
  - Android: Self-signed
  - iOS: Vendor-controlled
- Third-party isolation
  - Android: Configurable
  - iOS: Not Allowed
- App Permissions
  - Android: Static (Manifest) or you can’t deny it
  - iOS: Dynamic (When it’s used)

## System Security Bypass
In iOS, is allows the user to run software or code that is not authorized by Apple. This is creates backdoors in the operating system to open vulnerabilities. Another common reason for jailbreaking an iOS device is to unlock carrier-locked iPhones. It is less common to unlock iPhones today since iPhones are provided by most of the major phone carriers.

In Android, rooting the operating system allows the user to get root privileges (Similar to linux). The purpose of rooting the operating system is to execute privileged tasks like removing pre-installed apps. The user can also bypass restrictions made by manufacturers. 

## Mobile Malware Genesis
There have been many malwares but let's start from the beginning.

In August 2000, a malware called Epoc. Fake was the first to take advantage of bluetooth capabilities. It would pretend to be formatting the hard drive.

In June 2004, a malware called SymbOS Cabir used bluetooth to distribute itself to others. It would consume a large amount of power.

In August 2004, the first mobile backdoor was found.

By November 2004, there were corrupt apps which would replace icons with skulls.

## Calm Before the Storm
There was not a lot of malware during this phase. This is when the smartphone revolution started which included the release of the iPhone and HTC Dream.

The first mobile botnet was the Smbian Worm which was detected in 2009. The botnet targeted the Symbian operating systems. It was signed with a valid digital signature which was not seen before. It involved HTTP communication and anti-debugging features.

IKEE, the first iOS malware was the discovered in 2009 in the Netherlands. THe vulnerability in the SSH default password was used to infect iPhones with the malware. The malware would ask for some ransome in exchange for the malware to be removed. 

FakePlayer, the first android malware found in the wild. It was discovered in August 2010. The malware was very simple and had limited functionality. It acted as a media player application which would fool users. 

Tapsnake, an android malware used the phone's GPS location to be sent to a remote server.

## Android Malware Revolution
The time period involved lots of malware which is very SCARY!

Geinimi, the first android botnet found in December 2010. It was also the first “repackaged” Android malware. The botnet would leak sensitive information to a remote server including location, device identifiers, and installed applications. 

PJAPPS, is a malware found in February 2011 targeting Chinese users. It was used to intercept incoming SMS messages. 

Driddream, a malware found by a Reddit user in March 2011. More than 50 applications were repackaged with the following malware. It attempts to root the device to execute privileged commands. It was the first malware to be found in the Android Market. 

Due to all these malware, Google decided to implement a remote kill switch. All malicious apps were removed from the Android Market. The developer’s accounts were suspended as well. 

## Android Fundamentals
Now, let’s discuss the different components in an Android application. 

**Activities**: A single screen UI. This component can be used for phishing attacks.

**Services**: It is a task that runs in the background without a UI. It can be used by malware and ad networks.

**Broadcast Receivers**: This component responds to system-wide broadcast announcements. (e.g. Listeners)

**Content Providers**: Manages shared app data. (e.g. Shared preferences)

There are also components for inter-process communications in Android which include Content Providers, Intents, and Binder.

Below is an example of an explicit intent used in Android
```
Intent downloadIntent = new Intent(this, DownloadService.class);
downloadIntent.setData(Uri.parse(fileUrl));
startService(downloadIntent);
```

Android application permissions are static which means they are requested on installation. Permissions are included in a file called `AndroidManifest.xml`. There are currently more than 140 permissions in the latest Android operating system. There are also four different protection levels for apps: Normal, Dangerous, Signature, and SignatureOrSystem.

## Android Banking Trojans
Android devices can be used to steal banking information. Attackers can take advantage of two-factor authentication to gain access to sensitive information. Two-factor authentication usually involves something you know and something you have. 

In the early days, the methodology for stealing banking information starts from infecting the PC and injects a fake web page. The web page will suggest the installation of a security app on your android device. Then, the trojan will intercept the second factor of authentication and send it to the remote server or the attacker.

## Android Obfuscation Techniques
One technique is Identifier Renaming, which relies on the fact that Java applications are easier to reverse engineer, and function and variable names usually describe intended behavior. This means that if you rename classes, variables, and methods with random names, it won’t be as easy to reverse engineer since you won’t know what the different methods variables are used for.

Another technique is called Strings Encryption, which basically encrypts all strings so that no strings are readable. There are tools out there for the developer to encrypt. 

Junk Byte Insertion is another technique which inserts incorrect or incomplete instructions in binary. It won’t change the behavior of application but when the analyst goes to the compiler code, it won’t be as clear.

