---
layout: post
title: Software Vulnerabilities and Common Exploits
tags: [Defense Against the Dark Arts]
---

## Hacking a system or software
When trying to find vulnerabilities in a system or software application, you're trying to think outside the box and understand what the developer of the system/software didn't think about. This is what **hacking** is all about, to manipulate software. 

There are two general way to manipulate software:
1. Find a vulnerability in the software and take advantage of it.
2. Exploit configuration vulnerabilities like weak passwords.

Now that hacking is a big thing involving governments of nations, it is very important to be ethical when attempting.
However, most companies will pay for reporting vulnerabilities. 

## Writing Exploits
An exploit is what the hacker is trying to write to control the vulnerabilities in a software/system. Exploits could be code, input, or data that the program receives which triggers a condition. 

{: .box-note}
**Note:** Writing exploits is NOT finding vulnerabilities. It is writing code to take advantage of the vulnerabilities that will lead to an exploit.

As an attacker, you want to control the payload of the crash. In other words, you don't want the crash to be very significant that you can't get any information out of the program. You can control the payload as much as you want it to be. 

{: .box-note}
**Note:** Payload is often called shell code because when a program executes it, the program gives the user access to a shell.

Let's take this piece of code as an example:
```
bool isValid = 0;
char buf[255];
memcpy(buf, usrval, len);
...
if (checkPW(buf))
isValid = 1;
...
return isValid;
```
The problem here is in line 2 and 3. In line 3, we assume that len is a defined value but we can't assume that is lower than 255 which is the max size of the buffer. So what could happen is `usrval` overflows the buffer which could potentially overwrite the memoryspace in `isValid`. The point of this, is to have a payload related to your vulnerability.


## Vulnerability: Memory Corruption
The high level definition of memory corruption is undefined behavior when trying to access memory in an invalid way.
- Accessing could be reading or writing
- Memory usually from heap or stack
- Memory corruption is typically unintended
- The undefined behavior is what we could use to take advantage of

