---
layout: post
title: HTTP Header Analysis Lab
tags: [Defense Against the Dark Arts]
---

In this lab, I will be examining network traffic to analyze whether a given network is running correctly, is under attack, has secrets in it we would like to reveal or protect, and so on. 

Instead analyzing all the data in the network, we are going to use “metadata” to analyze the network. In this case, the metadata is the most basic header data of a packet.

For each packet, the following information will be given:
- Length, IP type, IP Source Address, IP Destination Address
- TCP: Flags, Source port, Destination port,
- UDP: Source port, Destination port
- ICMP: type, code

The data of the packets are store in a CSV file. I will be writing a python script to analyze data from the file. 

# Find Statistics on TCP and UDP Services
I wrote a feature in the script to count the use of all well-known destination port numbers for TCP and UDP (ports 1-1024). A well known port is often called a “service”.

1. The following code will count the use of all well-known destination port numbers for TCP and UDP.

It can be executed with the following command:
```
python scancsv.py [csvfile] --stat
```

**R.csv:**
The network uses TCP port 139 (SMB port) for inter-process communication between hosts in a network, usually with Windows machines. Port 80 is the second most used port in this network for TCP. This protocol is usually associated with the internet. Lastly, Port 22 which is used with TCP is for the Post Office Protocol (POP) to extract and retrieve email from a remote server. 

The top destination port for UDP is 53 which is used for domain name resolution. Port 136 uses NetWare services. 

Based on the information, it is most likely a work network. This is because most of the services are what you would typically see in an enterprise setting.

**O.csv:**
The top destination port for TCP in this network simple mail transfer protocol. Finger is another protocol that is popular in this network which is allows the capability exchange human-oriented status and user information within the network. Secure shell (SSH) is the third most used service for TCP.

The top destination port for UDP in this network is DNS (Domain name services). Second, the ISO InterLibrary Loan application standards is used to allow interconnection between systems from different manufactures. The third most used destination port is 136, which uses the profile naming service to identify users and organizations in a network.

Based on the information, it most likely a small business network since it uses services such as simple mail transfer protocol, secure shell, finger, and profile naming service.

# Investigate IP addresses
The script will also create a list of distinct IP addresses with their usage counts. The output wil be sorted by usage count.

The feature can be executed with the following command:
```
python scancsv.py [csvfile] --countip
```

The output of this feature informs my hypothesis in (2). 

The network number that seems to dominate the traffic in R.csv is 10.5.228.

The network number that seems to dominate the traffic in O.csv is  192.245.12.220

The OSPF information does not inform my hypothesis for the O network because OSPF is mainlys used in ISPs (Internet Service Provides).

# Finding the servers
To find the servers in a network, we can find the IP addresses that are the destination of many transactions. 

I implemented a new feature to the script to count the number of packets sent to each service on the network. To execute the feature, the following command is:

```
python scancsv.py [csvfile] --connto
```

The network address mentioned earlier is proved based on the results.
