---
layout: post
title: Windows Internals
tags: [Defense Against the Dark Arts]
---

## What are rootkits? 
Rootkit is a malware where its main purpose is to establish its presence in a system. 
This involves the rootkit concealing its existence in the system from processes and users.

Fun facts about root kits:
- About 10 percent of current malware use rootkits
- Rootkits are typically found in 32-bit Windows operating system
- There is not a lot of rootkit families found in 64-bit Windows operating system

Most rootkits live in the kernel of the operating system.

## The Kernel
The kernel uses a flat memory model with no security separation.  In other words, all virtual addresses are unique. 
As a result, any kernel driver can access any part of memory efficiently.

{: .box-note}
**Note**: In Windows, you can find the kernel file that is loaded when your system is booting. 
It is located in system32>ntoskrnl.exe.

## Threading Basics
Understanding the basics of threading is important because you will need to determine what thread is a rootkit thread.

A thread is the smallest unit of execution within an operating system.

Here is a visual example of how threading works:

Suppose you have a program written in a high-level language
```
X = 4
Y = 4
Z = X + Y
```

When compiled, it is translated into assembly code
```
MOV eax, 4
MOV ebx, 5
ADD eax, ebx
```

Finally, it gets translated into machine code
```
B9 04 00 00 00
B8 05 00 00 00
03 c2
```

The binary sequence or the machine code is then loaded into RAM before any execution can happen. 
Meanwhile, the code is transferred to the CPU through a BUS. 

Now, this is only ONE SINGLE thread. There can be multiple threads. 
What happens when there is a lot of threads running? 
The operating system implements a thread scheduler to determine which thread to execute.

{: .box-note}
**Note**: Each operating system has a different thread scheduler algorithm.

## Multi-threading - Multiple Cores
The concept of multiple cores is within a single package of the CPU, you duplicate all the functionality. 
Each core can run program instructions at the same time. 
As a result, you can process programs a lot faster.

## Thread Characteristics
-	A thread context stores all the related information about the thread
-	Each thread has its own stack
-	Each process can contain one or more threads. A process needs at least on thread to execute.

{: .box-note}
**Note**: Processes and threads are NOT the same.
